# AltSchool-Project
This showcases the first-semester project for the AltSchool Africa Data Engineering class of 2023 project.

The task includes implementing two classes, Expense and ExpenseDatabase, to model and manage financial expenses.

## Expense class 
An expense class  represents an individual financial expense. It has a couple of attributes shared by all instances of the expense class.

```
class Expense:
    def __init__(self,id, title ,amount):
        self.id = (str(uuid.uuid4()))
        self.title = title
        self.amount = amount
        self.created_at = datetime.utcnow()
        self.upated_at= datetime.utcnow()
```

id: a unique identifier for the expense, generated by the uuid module

title: a string that describes the expense

amount: a numeric value that indicates the cost of the expense

created_at:  DateTime object that indicates when the expense was created

updated_at:  DateTime object that indicates when the expense was last updated

### Expense class methods:
This refers to the different behaviours that objects will show. 

Update: a method that updates the title and/or amount of the expense, if they are not None. It also sets the updated_at attribute to the current time using the datetime module.
```
 def update(self, title = None, amount = None):
        if title is not None:
            self.title = title
        if amount is not None:
            self.amount = amount
        self.updated_at = datetime.utcnow()
```

to_dict: a method that returns a dictionary representation of the expense, with the attribute names as keys and the attribute values as values.

```
def to_dict(self):
        return{
            "id":self.id,
            "title": self.title,
            "amount":self.amount,
            "created_at": self.created_at,
            "updated_at": self.upated_at
        }
```

## Expense Database 
The ExpenseDatabase class represents a collection of expenses. The database is assigned to an empty list, a list that stores the expenses as objects of the Expense class. 

```
def __init__(self):
        self.database = []
```


### Expense Database methods 
The Expense Database class also has the following methods:

add_expense: a method that takes an expense object as an argument and appends it to the database list. It also returns a string that confirms the addition of the expense.

```
 def add_expense(self, expense):
        self.database.append(expense)
        return f"{expense} has been added successfully"

````

remove_expense: a method that takes an id as an argument and removes the expense object with that id from the database list. It also prints a message that confirms the removal of the expense.


```
def remove_expense(self,id):
    self.database = [expense for expense in self.database if expense.id != id]
        print(f"Expense with id{id} has been removed!")
```


get_expense_by_id: a method that takes an id as an argument and returns a list of expense objects with that id from the database list. If there is no such expense, it returns an empty list.

```
def get_expense_by_id(self, id):
        return[expense for expense in self.database if expense.id == id]
```


get_expense_by_title: a method that takes a title as an argument and returns a list of expense objects with that title from the database list. If there is no such expense, it returns an empty list.


```
def get_expense_by_title(self, title):
        return[expense for expense in self.database if expense.title == title]

```

to_dict: a method that returns a list of dictionaries, each representing an expense object in the database list, using the to_dict method of the Expense class.


```
def to_dict(self):
        return[expense.to_dict() for expense in self.database]
```

## How to Clone this project 

Cloning is a way to create a copy of a repository on your local computer or a remote virtual machine.
This allows you to work with the entire repository, including all the files, branches and commits. You can then push your changes to the remote repository, or pull other people’s changes from the remote repository. However, you cannot contribute to the original repository unless you are a collaborator or you create a pull request.

- Above the list of files, click  <Code> 

- Copy the URL for the repository.

To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "HTTPS", click .

To clone the repository using an SSH key, including a certificate issued by your organization's SSH certificate authority, click SSH, then click .

To clone a repository using GitHub CLI, click GitHub CLI, then click .

Screenshot of the "Code" dropdown menu. To the right of the HTTPS URL for the repository, a copy icon is outlined in dark orange.

Open Git Bash.

Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.

Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied earlier.

git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
Press Enter to create your local clone.

$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
> Cloning into `Spoon-Knife`...
> remote: Counting objects: 10, done.
> remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
> remove: Total 10 (delta 1), reused 10 (delta 1)
> Unpacking objects: 100% (10/10), done.
